# Raspberry-Pi-Automation
Using the smallest smart computer chip you can now automate your home as you like it.
The purpose of this document is to present a detailed description of the Home Automation using Internet of Things. Working of various aspects in Internet of Things and Raspberry Pi. This document is intended for both the stakeholders and the developers of the system.
Nowadays “IoT” is everywhere in the world to make the smarter world. Due to “IoT” we can see many smart devices around us. Many people hold the view that cities and the world itself will be overlaid with sensing and actuation, many embedded in “things” creating what is referred to as a smart world.
Today many buildings already have sensors for attempting to save energy, home automation; traffic lights have devices to try and improve safety and transportation.
People have smart phones with sensors for running many useful apps; industrial plants are connecting to the Internet; and healthcare services are relying on increased home sensing to support remote medicine and wellness. One possibility is a global sensing and actuation utility connected to the Internet.
“IoT” tries to establish advanced connectivity (with the aid of Internet) among these mentioned device or systems or services in order to little by little make automation in all areas. Image that all things are connected to gather and all information would be interacted to each other over standard and different protocol domain and applications.
It is related to everything in home which has the potential to monitor and remote control such as air condition, security locks, lightening, heating, ventilation, telephone system, television to make a comfortable, secure, with low energy consumption.”In a nutshell IoT wants to connect all potential objects to interact each other on the Internet to provide secure, comfort life for human”.
Secure home automation will ease the controlling the home appliances and what turns the ordinary home into “Smart Home”. Imagine how helpful it will be able to switch on your air conditioning system minutes before you getting home on a hot afternoon. How about a security system that will detect intrusion and other movements in house and alert you? This is what home automation is about. There is no end to its applications.
The project has been started over a need of more network coverage between the Smart phone and the secure home automation that will provide physical security and will give access to the user over Internet connectivity or a network; energy conservation; security and various home applications remain driving factors or communication. These entire requirements in terms of bandwidth cost and installation. 
Wireless Home Automation System(WHAS) using “IoT” is a system that uses computers or mobile devices to control basic home functions and features automatically through Internet from anywhere around the world, an automated home is sometimes called a smart home. It is meant to save the electric power and human energy. The home automation system differs from other system by allowing the user to operate the system from anywhere around the world through Internet connection. The proposed home automation system has the capabilities to control the following components in users home and monitor Lights on/off Fan on/off, Motion detection and Smoke detectors.
The benefits that were gained due to deployment of project are automation in home with use of smart devices. The system helped to gain remote access to home and controlling home appliances. The home is equipped with smoke sensor so in case of emergency a buzzer will blow on. The Physical security has been provided to home by providing a camera that will capture photograph of person outside the door if it gets any signal by motion sensor. In short it can be said that that automation of home has been achieved using Internet of Things. 
The Existing system was having some flaws with the communication range, the owner of the house was able to communicate with home automation gateway using a Bluetooth so it gave a limit for automation only in nearby areas. Using the concepts of Internet of Things we have achieved access to the system over Internet which enables access to home gateway from any corner of world.
In the proposed system, the system is installed beside the conventional electrical switches on the wall. The risk of dangerous electric shocks can be avoided by using low voltage switches. The system uses GUIs on Smartphone. The status of the appliances i.e. whether it is on/off can be known by using this GUI. Any changes in the status of the appliances can be done by user, the user gets immediate alert when someone will be near the main door. 
The system employs PIR sensors to detect the persons entering/waiting outside the room and sends the output signal to the Raspberry Pi board for processing. The Raspberry board drives the relay circuit to control fan and light and capture the image using camera. The image can also be captured and sends an SMS notification to user.
